# The case for Research DAOs

By [theodore](https://daotalk.org/u/theodore)

Research to most people appears as an unstructured, open ended process. It is the opposite. It is a very well defined process, with very specific outcomes performed via a rigorous structure and method. In most cases and disciplines around the world, research remains a solitary activity, however there are disciplines and research projects that require collaboration in the extreme. Examples are the Large Hadron Collider and all physics experiments at CERN where one can can observe thousands of scientists working on a single project. Research projects do not come without a rigorous structure, which applies not only to the method involved, but also to the authority of the persons involved. There is as such a hierarchy, based on authority and years \(and projects\) of experience. In most cases I would expect that most researchers would see decentralized autonomous organisations with suspicion as a modus operandi. Any change in the established methods of how to do research comes in each discipline with a high barrier of verifiability, and rigorous cross checking. 

I am not making the argument that all research projects need a DAO, nor should the regulation of such Research DAOs be completely democratic. In our recent proposal of ‘Blockchain grammars’ we advocate for example that established researchers, when participating In a research DAO such as blockchain grammars, should receive reputation proportionate to their reputation as researchers in the field. This aligns with the idea of the holographic consensus on DAOstack and alchemy, as true experts in the field would have the wisdom to take rigorous decisions about a project. On the other hand, this idea also allows the new, fresh researcher to propose and vote on ideas, projects, resource allocation using a rigorous proposal mediation structure. As such, it is the rigorous proposal mediation and resolution structure that we believe should exist within research DAOs such as blockchain grammars, along with with clear targets and goals, a distinction that differentiates these DAOs from general purpose ones, such as Genesis Alpha. Thus the DAO can be used as a replacement organisational structure for these research projects.

A further issue that makes research DAOs interesting and potentially groundbreaking, is the potential to control their own funds. Research gets funded through a highly competitive process, in most cases through public funding bodies set up for this purpose. Developed countries and countries with high GDP have of course an advantage. This does not necessarily mean that a research funding application that gets rejected is bad or unworthy, but that the research funding needs to be prioritised, hence very good research proposals that do deserve funding are rejected. One could then imagine a DAO that owns cryptocurrencies and uses either human intelligence or A.I to make strategic investments of these assets so that they grow, with the understanding that the surplus funding will be invested into conducting research. [Some colleagues have already done it](http://ledgerjournal.org/ojs/index.php/ledger/article/view/108) without the benefits of the DAO, or at least they have indicated that independent science research funding through cryptocurrencies may be a financial sound strategy.

